DISI 2021 

## Statement of Purpose
Hello - I am Jesse Parent, and assistant scientist and lab manager at Orthogonal Research and Education Lab (OREL). I have a B.S. in Informatics, after returning to school as a non-traditional student originally studying international relations & economy and working at a startup on educational content. I developed research experience in several departments on campus,  including a publication in affective computing, and neuroscience lab work. I joined OREL during my senior year, and therein found my space for a truly cross-disciplinary approach to natural and biological intelligence, also collaborating with DevoWorm, a developmental biology team within the OpenWorm foundation. I'm currently intending to start graduate school this fall as a Masters Student in Computer Science, and have plans to pursue a PhD in Computer or Cognitive Science to further my research-centered career (and aims to become a professor.)

Within the last two years, I've presented or published at events like ALIFE conference, International Workshop on Embodied Intelligence, CSVconf, ACM CHI, Princeton Envision, New York Celebration of Women in Computing (AI Ethics), and have an article upcoming in June's BioSystems. My research largely focuses on the various mechanisms of intelligence, in a sense of the cognitive or embodied structures that afford them, as well as developing educational & epistemological tools and resources to aid investigators in exploring the frontiers of cognition and intelligence. I've also furthered my understanding of intelligence via attended MIT's Center for Brains, Minds and Machine's summer course, as well as Neruomatch Academy (Computational Neuroscience) summer school, last year. 

Through these activities and my duties at OREL, I've been contributing to two main projects: Developmental AI and Cognition Futures; the former being an investigation of developmental processes in biology and cognitive science / psychology, and how they, further robustness and depth in embodied intelligent agents. I have recently developed the Cognition Futures research team to map various approaches to cognition, their computational possibilities or limitations, and further more generalization theories of how cognition works in biological systems as well as their simulated or artificial counterparts.

DISI will be a tremendous opportunity  to learn from others, as well as continue a personal mission of cross-discipline collaboration and integration; this lends to both a broader understanding of intelligence in specific, and to practices that afford a better world, in general. Please consider my application alongside my commitment to research and positive outcomes of such collaborations.


